README.md, before:

[![Website](https://img.shields.io/badge/https://-cyclonedx.org-blue.svg)](https://cyclonedx.org/)
[![Slack Invite](https://img.shields.io/badge/Slack-Join-blue?logo=slack&labelColor=393939)](https://cyclonedx.org/slack/invite)
[![Group Discussion](https://img.shields.io/badge/discussion-groups.io-blue.svg)](https://groups.io/g/CycloneDX)
[![Twitter](https://img.shields.io/twitter/url/http/shields.io.svg?style=social&label=Follow)](https://twitter.com/CycloneDX_Spec)

# GitHub action to generate a CycloneDX SBOM for Python

## Inputs

### `input`

The path to a pip requirements file, default is "./requirements.txt"

Be sure to quote paths with spaces.

### `output`

Output filename, default is "./bom.xml"

Be sure to quote paths with spaces.

### `format`

Output format, one of "json"/"xml", default is "xml"

## Example usage

```yaml
- name: Generate Python SBOM
  uses: CycloneDX/gh-python-generate-sbom@v2
  with:
    input: ./requirements.txt
    output: ./bom.json
    format: json
```

----

## Internals

This GitHub ation depends on `cyclonedx-bom>=1.4.0,<4`. 
See [`cyclonedx-bom` on PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/cyclonedx-bom/).

Commit message:

docs: mark deprecated
>
> This GitHub Action is considdered deprecated.  
> Instead, you may use one the following tool in your github workflow:
>
>  [`cyclonedx-bom`](https://pypi.org/project/cyclonedx-bom/)
>   ```yaml
>   - run: python -m pip install 'cyclonedx-bom>=4,<5'
>   - name: Create SBOM step
>     # see for usage: https://pypi.org/project/cyclonedx-bom/
>     run: python -m cyclonedx_py # your options here
>   ```
> 

Signed-off-by: Jan Kowalleck <jan.kowalleck@owasp.org>

README.md, after:

>
> This GitHub Action is considdered deprecated.  
> Instead, you may use one the following tool in your github workflow:
>
>  [`cyclonedx-bom`](https://pypi.org/project/cyclonedx-bom/)
>   ```yaml
>   - run: python -m pip install 'cyclonedx-bom>=4,<5'
>   - name: Create SBOM step
>     # see for usage: https://pypi.org/project/cyclonedx-bom/
>     run: python -m cyclonedx_py # your options here
>   ```
> 

----

# GitHub action to generate a CycloneDX SBOM for Python

[![Website](https://img.shields.io/badge/https://-cyclonedx.org-blue.svg)](https://cyclonedx.org/)
[![Slack Invite](https://img.shields.io/badge/Slack-Join-blue?logo=slack&labelColor=393939)](https://cyclonedx.org/slack/invite)
[![Group Discussion](https://img.shields.io/badge/discussion-groups.io-blue.svg)](https://groups.io/g/CycloneDX)
[![Twitter](https://img.shields.io/twitter/url/http/shields.io.svg?style=social&label=Follow)](https://twitter.com/CycloneDX_Spec)


## Inputs

### `input`

The path to a pip requirements file, default is "./requirements.txt"

Be sure to quote paths with spaces.

### `output`

Output filename, default is "./bom.xml"

Be sure to quote paths with spaces.

### `format`

Output format, one of "json"/"xml", default is "xml"

## Example usage

```yaml
- name: Generate Python SBOM
  uses: CycloneDX/gh-python-generate-sbom@v2
  with:
    input: ./requirements.txt
    output: ./bom.json
    format: json
```

----

## Internals

This GitHub ation depends on `cyclonedx-bom>=1.4.0,<4`. 
See [`cyclonedx-bom` on PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/cyclonedx-bom/).
